## THE LIFE OF ISIDORE THE MONK OF MELITENE AND ANOTHER MIRACLE OF THE MOST HOLY SACRAMENT

There is a market-town in Cyprus called Tadai, which contains a monastery located near a place called Philoxenos. When we arrived there, we found in the monastery a monk named Isidore, a native of Melitene. We noticed that he was always in tears and groaning. Everybody tried to persuade him to desist a little from his lamentation, but he would not be comforted. He told them all: “I am as great a sinner as there has been from Adam to this day.”

We said to him: “But abba, in truth, sir, nobody is really sinless except one: God himself.” He replied: “Believe me, brethren, I have found no sin amongst men which I have not committed, whether I have learned it from writing or by hearsay. If you think that I am accusing myself unjustly, hear of my sin so that you can pray for me.”

“In the world,” he continued, “I had a wife, and both she and I were of the Severan persuasion. One day, when I came home, I could not find my wife, but I heard that she had gone to a neighbor's to take communion. Now he was a communicant of the holy Catholic Church, so I ran immediately to stop my wife. As I entered the neighbor's house, I found my wife exactly at the point of receiving the holy portion and making her communion. I grabbed her by the throat and forced her to emit the holy portion. I seized it and threw it up and down, and it fell in the mud. 

All at once, I saw a flash of lightning take up the holy communion from the spot where it lay. And two days later, I saw a black-faced one wearing rags who said to me: ‘You and I are alike condemned to the same damnation.’ I asked: ‘Who are you?’ The black-faced one replied: ‘I am he who struck the cheek of the Creator of all things, our Lord Jesus Christ, at the time of his passion.’ It is on this account,” said the monk, “that I cannot desist from weeping.”
