## The Wondrous Vision of the Duke of Palestine by Which He Was Compelled to Renounce the Aforementioned Heresy and to Enter into Communion with the Church of Christ

Anastasios the Priest also told us that when Gébémer became the military governor of Palestine, his first act was to come and worship at the holy Church of the Resurrection of Christ, who is God. As he was about to approach, he saw a ram charging at him, intent on impaling him on its horns. So great was his fear that he stepped backward towards the guardian of the Chapel of the Cross, who was present, as well as the lictors who stood by. 

They said to him, "What is the matter, your highness? Why do you not enter?" He replied, "Why did you bring in that ram?" They were taken aback by this, but they peered into the holy sepulchre and saw nothing. They spoke to him, urging him to enter and assuring him that there was no ram in there. A second time, he made as though to enter, and again he saw the ram charging at him, preventing him from entering. This happened several times, at least in his eyes. Those who were with him saw nothing, and the guardian of the Chapel of the Cross said to him, "Believe me, your highness, there is something in your soul, and it is because of this that you are prevented from worshipping at the holy and life-giving sepulchre of our Saviour. You would do well to confess before God, for he is kindly disposed towards humanity, and it was to show mercy on you that he made you see this vision." 

Bursting into tears, the governor said, "I am responsible for many great sins against the Lord." He cast himself face down on the ground and remained weeping in that position for a long time, confessing to God. Then he got up and made as though to enter the sepulchre, but he could not. The apparition of the ram prevented him no less than before. The guardian of the Chapel of the Cross then said to him, "There is still some other impediment." 

The governor replied, "Could it be that I am forbidden to enter because I am in communion with Severus and not with the holy Catholic and apostolic Church?" He begged the guardian of the Chapel of the Cross that he might partake of the holy and life-giving mysteries of Christ our God. When the holy chalice arrived, he made his communion, and thus he entered and worshipped, no longer seeing anything that deterred him.
