## THE LIFE OF A VIRGIN PRIEST AND OF HIS WIFE, WHO WAS ALSO A VIRGIN

When we were on the island of Samos, we went to the community named Charizenos where we met the higoumen, Abba Isidore, a man of distinguished virtue with a great love for all humanity, adorned with simplicity and infinite humility; later, he became bishop of the same city on Samos. He told us this story: 

About eight miles from the city of Samos, there is an estate on which there is a church. It had a priest who was a very remarkable man. His parents had forced him to marry against his will. Not only did this man not let himself be led into the temptation of delight (even though he was young and legally married to the woman), he even persuaded his wife to live with him in purity and continence. They both learned the psalter and used to sing the psalms together in church, preserving their virginity into old age.

Now it happened that a false accusation was made before the bishop against this priest. As the bishop was unaware of the true state of affairs, he sent for the priest from the estate and put him in the prison where it was customary to guard and detain clergy who had gone astray. While he was in the prison, as the holy day of the Lord was dawning but while it was still night, there appeared to him an extremely handsome young man who said to him: “Priest, arise: be off to your church and celebrate the Eucharist.” The priest replied, “I cannot, for I am a prisoner.” The apparition said to him, “I will open the prison. Come, follow me.” 

He opened the door of the prison and led the way out. When he was out, he accompanied the priest to within a mile of the estate. After the break of day, the jailor went in search of the prisoner. When he could not find him, he went to the bishop, saying, “He has run away from me and I had the key!” Thinking that he had indeed run away, the bishop sent one of the episcopal servants, saying, “Go and see if that priest is on his estate—but do not take any further action against him.” 

The servant went and found the priest in the church, celebrating the Eucharist. He returned and said to the bishop, “He is there, and I saw him celebrating the Eucharist.” The bishop became even more angry with the priest and swore to bring him back in dishonorable custody the next day.

The night preceding Monday, the vision he had seen earlier appeared again to the priest, saying, “Come along, we must return to that place in the city into which the bishop cast you.” He took the priest and led him back again, replacing him in the prison without the knowledge of the man who was charged with responsibility for it. 

At daybreak on Monday, the bishop learned from this man that, without his knowing how it had come about, he had found the priest back in gaol. The bishop sent for the priest and demanded of him how he had gotten out of the prison and then come back in without the knowledge of the gaoler. The priest replied, “A very handsome young servant, beautifully dressed, who said he was of the episcopal retinue, opened up for me and led me to within a mile of the estate on Saturday night. He came to me again last night and brought me back.”

The bishop brought forward all the episcopal servants, but the priest did not recognize one of them. Then the bishop realized that it was an angel of God who had performed this deed, so that the virtue of the priest should not be entirely concealed—but that all might learn of it and glorify the God who glorifies His servants. He dismissed the priest in peace while complaining bitterly against those who had falsely accused him.
