## THE LIFE OF THE ABOVE-MENTIONED COSMAS, THE LAWYER

Concerning this master Cosmas the lawyer, many people told us varying accounts; some shared one thing, while others spoke of another. However, most people spoke extensively. We shall document what we witnessed with our own eyes and what we have carefully examined, for the benefit of those who chance to read it.

He was a humble man, merciful, continent, a virgin, serene, cool-tempered, friendly, hospitable, and kind to the poor. This wondrous man greatly benefitted us, not only by allowing us to see him and by teaching us, but also because he had more books than anyone else in Alexandria and would willingly provide them to those who wished to read. Yet, he was a man of no possessions. Throughout his house, there was nothing to be seen but books, a bed, and a table. Anyone could enter and request what would benefit him—and read it.

Each day, I would visit him, and I never entered without finding him either reading or writing against the Jews. It was his fervent desire to convert the Hebrews to the truth. For this reason, he would often send me to some Hebrews to discuss a point of Scripture with them, as he would not readily leave the house himself.

One day, I went to the house of Master Cosmas the lawyer, and, as I was quite familiar with him, I said to him: "Of your charity, how long have you been leading the solitary life?" He kept silent and gave no answer, so I asked again: "For the sake of the Lord, tell me." He remained silent a little longer, then he told me: "For thirty-three years." When I heard this, I glorified God.

Another time, I came to him and asked him: "Of your extreme charity, and in full knowledge that it is for the benefit of my soul that I ask you this; will you tell me what you have accomplished in so long a period of solitude and continence?" He heaved a great sigh from the depths of his heart and said to me: "What shall a man living in the world accomplish, especially a man who stays in his own house?" Yet I begged him to tell me, for the Lord's sake, and for the good of my soul. Finally, coerced by my persistence, he said: "Forgive me; there are three things I know of which I have accomplished: not to laugh, not to swear, and not to lie."
