## The Life of a Faithful Woman Who, With Wondrous Wisdom, Converted Her Gentile Husband to the Faith

On the island of Samos, Mary, the friend of both God and the poor and the mother of Master Paul, the military official attached to the court kandidatos, told us that there was a Christian woman in Nisbis whose husband was a pagan Hellén. They possessed fifty miliarisia. 

One day, the husband said to his wife, “Let us lend out that money and get some advantage from it, for in drawing on it a little at a time, we are going to spend it all.” The wife answered, “If you insist on lending this money, come: lend it to the God of the Christians.” He replied, “Well, where is this God of the Christians, so we can lend it to Him?” She said, “I will show you. Not only shall you not lose your money, but it shall even earn interest for you, and the capital shall be doubled.” He said to her, “Come on then; show me Him, and we will lend to Him.” 

She took her husband and led him to the most holy church. Now the church in Nisbis has five large doorways. As she brought him to the entrance, where the great porches are, she showed him the poor and said, “If you give to these persons, the God of the Christians receives it, for these are all His.” Immediately, with gladness, he gave the fifty miliarisia to the poor and went back to his house. 

Three months later, their expenses exceeded their ability to pay. The man said to his wife, “Sister, the God of the Christians is not going to pay us back anything of that debt, and here we are, in need.” In reply, the woman said, “Yes, He will repay. Go to where you handed over the money, and He will return it to you right away.” He went off to the holy church at a run. 

When he came to the spot where he had given the miliarisia to the poor, he went all around the church, expecting to find somebody who would give back to him what was owing. But all he found was the poor, still sitting there. While he was trying to decide to whom he should speak or whom he should ask, he saw at his feet, on the marble floor, one large miliaris lying there, one of those which he himself had distributed to the poor. Bending down, he picked it up and went to his house. 

Then he said to his spouse, “Look, I just went to your church, and believe me, woman, I did not see the God of the Christians as you said I would. And He certainly did not give me anything, except that I found this miliaris lying there where I gave fifty of them away.” Then that wondrous woman said to him, “It is He who invisibly provided that miliaris, for He is invisible and He operates the universe with invisible power and an unseen hand. Now, go, sir; buy us something so we can eat today, and He will provide you with something else.” 

Off he went and bought bread, wine, and fish for them. He came back and gave his purchases to his wife. She took the fish and began to clean it. When she cut it open, she found within a stone so magnificent that she was struck with wonder at it. She had no idea what it was, but she kept it nevertheless. 

When her husband came, she showed him the stone she had found while they were eating and said, “Look, I found this stone inside the fish.” When he saw it, he too was amazed at its beauty, but he did not know what it really was. When they had finished eating, he said to her, “Give it to me; I will go and sell it if I can find a way of getting anything for it.” As I said, he did not know what it was, for he was a simple man. 

He took the stone and went to the money-changer, who was also a silversmith. It was time for the smith to go home (for it was evening), but the man said to him, “Would you like to buy this stone?” When the money-changer saw it, he said, “How much do you want for it?” The man replied, “Give me what you will.” 

The other replied, “Take five miliarisia for it then.” Thinking that the merchant was making fun of him, the man said, “Would you give that much for it?” The merchant thought the man was being sarcastic, so he said, “Well, take ten miliarisia for it then.” Still thinking that the merchant was making fun of him, the man remained silent, at which the merchant said, “Then take twenty miliarisia for it.” As the man still kept silent and made no response, the merchant raised his offer to thirty, and then to fifty miliarisia, swearing that he would indeed pay that much. 

The seller of the stone realized that it must be very valuable if the merchant were prepared to pay fifty miliarisia for it. Little by little, the merchant raised his offer until it reached three hundred large miliarisia. This sum the man accepted. He handed over the stone and went home to his wife with a glad heart. 

When she saw him, she asked him how much he had sold it for, expecting him to say five or ten miliarisia. He took out the three hundred miliarisia and handed them to her, saying that for so much he had sold the stone. Filled with wonder at the goodness of God, she said to him, “Oh husband, see how good and generous and affluent is the God of the Christians! Look how He has not merely returned to you the fifty miliarisia you lent Him, together with interest, but in only a few days has given you the capital multiplied by six! Know therefore that there is no other God, neither on earth nor in heaven, but Him alone.” 

Convinced by this miracle and learning the truth by experience, he immediately became a Christian and glorified our God and Saviour, Jesus Christ, with the Father and the Holy Spirit, gratefully acknowledging the intelligence of his wife by which it had been granted to him to know God in very truth.
