## THE TEACHING OF ABBA JOHN OF CYZICOS ON HOW TO ACQUIRE VIRTUE

When we were going from holy Gethsemane to the Mount of Olives, we came to a monastery known as Abba Abraham's, which was founded by Abraham the Great (of the New Church of the all-glorious Mother of God, the ever-virgin Mary). He became higoumen there after Eudoxios. The higoumen was Abba John of Cyzicos when we were there.

One day, we asked him how one could attain virtues. The elder replied: “Anybody who would attain a certain virtue cannot succeed unless he first hates the vice that is the antithesis of that virtue. If you wish to attain sorrow, then you must hate laughter. Do you long for humility? Then hate haughtiness. Do you wish to be temperate (egkratés)? Then hate gluttony. If you want to be pure, then hate lewdness. If it is poverty you long for, then hate material possessions. If you wish to be an almsgiver, then hate the greed for money. 

Anybody who would live in the wilderness, let him hate cities. Anybody who wants to practice the discipline of silence must hate unrestricted speech. Anybody who would be as a stranger, let him hate ostentation. The man who desires to be free of anger must hate all communication with persons living in the world. He who would be forgiving must hate recrimination; he who would be undisturbed (aperspastos) must live alone. He who wants to master his tongue, let him seal his ears so that he does not hear much. He who wishes to live in unbroken fear of God, let him shun bodily rest but love affliction and distress. Thus shall he perfectly serve God.”
