## CONCERNING ANOTHER WISE WOMAN WHO, BY JUDICIOUS ADVICE, TURNED ASIDE A MONK WHO WAS HARASSING HER

Somebody told of a brother who lived in a community and who used to be sent to conduct the business of his house. There was a devout secular person in a village who used to give him hospitality as an act of faith whenever he came in and out of the village. This man had a daughter who had recently been widowed after living with her husband for a year or two. As the brother came in and out of their house, he began to be troubled by thoughts of her. Being no fool, she realized this and took care not to enter his presence.

One day, her father went into the neighboring city on necessary business, leaving her alone in the house. The brother came, as was his custom, and finding her alone, he asked, “Where is your father?” She replied, “He has gone into the city.” Then he began to be troubled by temptation and wanted to throw himself on her. She prudently said to him, “Do not be troubled; my father shall not return until evening. There are only the two of us here. But I know you monks never do anything without prayer. Get at it, then; pray to God, and if He puts it in your heart to do something, then we will do that.”

This was not acceptable to him, for temptation continued to rage within. She asked him, “Have you ever really known a woman?” He replied, “No; and that is why I want to know what it is like.” She responded, “That is why you are troubled by temptation, for you do not know the bad odour of wretched women.” To cool his ardour, she added, “I am having my period. Nobody can come near me or bear the smell of me because of the stench which mars my body.” 

When he heard this and similar remarks from her, he regretted what had happened; he regained his composure and wept. When she realized that he was himself again, she said, “Look, if I had listened to you and given in, we would already have been satisfied—and would have sinned utterly. How then could you have looked my father in the face or returned to your monastery to hear the choir of those holy ones who sing there? Be sober, I beg of you; and do not be so ready to lose all the sufferings you have endured and to deprive yourself of the good things of eternity, just for the sake of a little short-lived pleasure.”

When he heard what she had to say, the brother to whom this happened shared the story with him who now relates it, giving thanks to God who, by the woman’s prudence and temperance, had prevented him from taking an irremediable fall.
