---
    title: Pray for Maria
    description: |
        Pray for Maria
---
On my walk, I took a shortcut through a shopping center.
I was walking in the shade in front of the stores when I saw a lady with luggage.
Her skin was dark from long sun exposure.
She was making the sign of the cross over me and herself repeatedly.
I crossed myself and smiled at her.
When I approached her, we exchanged the usual greetings, and she started walking with me, asking if I knew about Padre Pio.
I said I did, and she pulled out a prayer book with pictures of him.

She told me about how dangerous it was and how "they" were killing everyone, even at their jobs, and how there was a spiritual battle everywhere.
While she was talking, she would notice cars passing and people walking by and make the sign of the cross over them.
She told me that Padre Pio had appeared to her.
She told me how everyone in her family had been killed, but she was protected by her guardian angel standing over her - when he flapped his wings, he drove the danger away.

She told me to take pictures of the prayers in her book and say them to protect myself.
I asked her name.
She hesitated and moved her eyes the way people do when they are thinking up a lie, then said, "Maria."
I had to interrupt her to get home before the sun set.

I said, "I have to go.
It was nice meeting you.
Would you pray for me?" She said, "Nice to meet you too."
Then she opened her prayer book and said a novena for me.
I asked if she was going to be there in a few minutes so I could bring her my Little Office of the Virgin Mary.
She told me to keep it and use it every day.

We made our final goodbyes, and as I was leaving, she offered me water.
I told her I was okay and that my house was around the corner.
She insisted, so I took the mini bottle from her.

I don't know if it's really possible to help people like that, but it's really a shame we leave them to be exposed to the harshness of the summer and winter and hunger.
