---
title: A Bad Time to Quit Smoking
tags: [blog]
layout: layouts/blog-post
---

I dreamt that I was
with some old high school friends at some kind of retreat in the woods with a lake. We were walking along the shore and the water rose and then receded. Small holes in the sand appeared and low tones came out of the holes like hitting the palm of your hand on PVC. We sat next to a group of guys. The guy I sat next to stuck something into the wet sand and pulled it out. It was a tobacco pipe about a foot long. I told him it looked really cool but then I was jonesing for a cigarette. I picked a really bad time to quit. I thought.

I got up and walked up to a long concessions counter that didn't have anyone working behind it. Immediately a woman came over. What good service they have here. She had dark, short curly hair under a beanie. She looked me up and down and started naming off a bunch of stock I didn't understand.

“We have golden cush, purple trampoline, red bud.”

“Are you naming off pot?”

“yes”

“I don't smoke pot. I just want cigarettes.”

She scrunched her face and pointed to a blond girl at the far end of the counter.

“I can help you over here!” she said with a big smile.

“I'll take a pack of cigarettes, please.”

She then started asking me three questions. They don't card in Nevada so this must be the way they find out if you're old enough.

“If you were a gun, what kind of gun would you be?”

“Uhh... I don't know... A pistol.”

I don't remember the other questions but they were just as weird. After the final question everyone in the area started applauding.

“Congratulations, sir!”

She handed me the cigarettes but it was shrink-wrapped with some juice boxes and the pack was open and half the cigarettes were missing. She then started handing me a plastic fork and then another. Must be out of habit.

“This is opened.”

I handed her the open pack wrapped together with three juice boxes. She took it out of my hands and then I woke up.
