## THE LIFE AND SAYINGS OF MARCELLUS THE SCETIOTE, ABBA OF THE MONASTERY OF MONIDIA

At the Lavra of Monidia, we encountered Abba Marcellus the Scetiote. Wishing to edify us somewhat, he told us this: When I was in my homeland, he was from Apameia, there was a charioteer whose name was Philerémos, meaning "lover of the wilderness." One day, when he failed to take the prize, his supporters rose up, shouting, "Philerémos takes no prize in the city." After I came to Scété, whenever I was tempted by my thoughts to go to the city, I would say to myself, "Marcellus, Philerémos takes no victor’s crown in the city." By the grace of Christ, that thought kept me from leaving Scété for thirty-five years, until the time when the barbarians came, sold me into slavery, and devastated Scété. 

This same Abba Marcellus told us this story, as though it were about another elder who lived at Scété, but it was, in reality, himself: One night, he got up to perform the office and, as the service was beginning, he heard a sound like that made by a military trumpet. The elder was troubled by this and wondered to himself from where this sound could be coming. No soldiers were there, nor was there any fighting in the district. As he pondered, behold—a demon approached him and said, "Yes, there is war. If you wish neither to fight nor to be attacked, go to sleep; then you shall not be attacked." 

Again, the elder said, "Believe me, children, there is nothing which troubles, incites, irritates, wounds, destroys, distresses, and excites the demons, and the supremely evil Satan himself against us, as the constant study of the psalms. The entire holy Scripture is beneficial to us and not a little offensive to the demons, but none of it distresses them more than the psalter. In public affairs, when one party sings the praises of the emperor, the other party is not distressed, nor does it move to attack the first party. But if that party begins reviling the emperor, then the other will turn on it. 

Thus it is that the demons are not so much troubled and distressed by the rest of holy Scripture as they are by the psalms. For when we meditate upon the psalms, on the one hand, we are praying on our own account, while, on the other hand, we are bringing down curses on the demons. Thus, when we say, "Have mercy upon me, O God, according to your great goodness: and according to the multitude of your tender mercies, do away with my transgressions" (Ps 50:1), and again, "Cast me not away from your presence: and take not your holy spirit from me" (Ps 51:11) and "Cast me not away in the time of age: forsake me not when my strength fails me" (Ps 70:9), we are praying for ourselves. But then we bring down curses on the demons when, for instance, we say, "Let God arise and let his enemies be scattered: let those also that hate him flee before him" (Ps 68:1), and again, "Let him scatter the people that delight in war" (Ps 67:31), and "I myself have seen the ungodly in great power and flourishing like a green bay-tree: I went by, and behold, he was gone; I sought him, but his place could nowhere be found" (Ps 36:35-36), and "Their sword shall go through their own heart" (Ps 36:15), and "He has excavated and dug up a pit, and is fallen himself into the destruction which he made for another" (Ps 7:16-17). "His travail shall come upon his own head, and his wickedness shall fall on his own pate."

Again, the elder said, "Believe me, children, when I say to you that it is a highly praiseworthy and a very glorious thing, a kingdom in itself, for a man to take vows and become a monk, for spiritual pursuits are eminently preferable to the quest for what gratifies the senses. Therefore, great is the disgrace and the dishonor of a monk who lays aside his habit, even if it be to become emperor." 

Again: "In the beginning, man was in the likeness of God. But when he fell away, he became like the wild beasts." Again: "Nature raises up the physical desires, brethren; but the intensification of asceticism extinguishes them." Again: "You must have personal experience of the good life and not be frightened as though it were impossible." Again: "Do not be amazed that, though you are an earthling, you can become an angel, for a glory like that of the angels lies before you, and he who presides over the games promises that glory to those who run the race." 

Again: "There is nothing which draws monks to God so much as good, decent, godly purity, which is conducive to a graceful and constant fidelity to the Lord" (1 Cor 7:35). "The all-holy Spirit bears witness to this through the godly Paul." Again: "Brethren, let us leave marriage and the raising of children to those whose eyes are towards earth, who long for the things of the present and take no thought for that which is to come; who do not strive to possess the good things of eternity and are unable to disentangle themselves from the ephemera of this world." 

Again: "Let us make haste to depart from the life of the body, even as Israel hurried to escape from slavery in Egypt." Again: "We have the splendid and delicious rewards of God ahead of us, brethren, in exchange for the bitter delights of this world." Again, the elder said: "Let us flee from avarice, which is the mother of all evils" (1 Tim 6:10).
