## THE LIFE OF ABBA ALEXANDER THE CILICIAN WHO WAS BESIEGED BY A DEMON WHEN HE WAS NEAR TO DEATH

The Monastery of Saint Sergios (also known as Xeropotamos) is located near holy Bethlehem, about two miles away. The higoumen there was a very devout man, Abba Eugenios, who later became bishop of Hermopolis in Egypt, situated on the border of the first Thebaid. When we visited that monastery, he shared that when Abba Alexander the Cilician reached old age in the caves of the holy Jordan, he brought him into his own monastery.

For three months, at the end of his life, Abba Alexander was confined to bed. Ten days before he went to the Lord, he fell into the clutches of a malicious demon. The elder began addressing the demon, saying, “Wretch, you have come at evening time. That is no great deed, for I am bed-ridden and immobilized. Without intending to, you have shown me your weakness, fool! If you were able and strong, you should have come to me fifty or sixty years ago. Then, by Christ, who lends me strength, I would have shown you your weakness. I would have beaten down your pride and bowed your stiff neck. This weakness which afflicts me is not of my own making but something that weighs me down. However, I give thanks to God, to whom I am going, and to whom I shall make known the injustice you inflict upon me by your merciless attacks at the end of my life, after so many years spent in rigorous asceticism.”

He would say this and much more besides each day. Then, on the tenth day, he surrendered his spirit to the Lord Jesus Christ in utter serenity and peace.
